11.
k5!

OF PRINTED SURFACES, TEST IS CONDUCTED NITH 2% OR 43 UEIGHT, PRINT TO

. BRIGHTNESS TESTER - THIS TEST IS USED TO DETERMINE THE NHITENESS OF PAPER
PRINTED (NO UHITE SHON-THROUGH), BRIGHTNESS IS IMPORTANT ONLY AS SEEN FROM

SENTINEL HEAT SEALER - LABORATORY HEAT SEALER USED TO DETERMINE HEAT
SENTINEL IS ALSO USEFUL FOR MAKING POUCHES FOR SHELF LIFE STUDIES.
and M.A. Jackson have found that cigarette smoke inhibits protein smthesis in

A number of recent studies have shown that smokers and nonsmokers react
differently to many drugs. One reason may be increased drug metabolism in


RO.BOX5627

and1mages should trigger a red flag Each group had very strong and consistent

ASSUMPTIONS.
0 CAMEL 12% PROMOTED @ 52+ (9% DISCOUNTED @ $4)


To demonstrate the range of engineering characteristics which can produce
The following symptoms were reported in Building A during the year
product testing methodology is judged inappropriate due to the
procedures will be validated (and evaluative measures
for "blind“ product performance cannot be set because of
parallel the non—menthol product.
THE COUNCIL FOR mBACCO RESEARCH, s.U.s.A., me."

I

INvEeroAToa(s;: numme‘ﬁvuunv? School or Division _“ _ I
Name and university of Colorado Start Date: July 1, 1983 5

pnmecr summmr: .
tive possibility involves chemical modification of nicotine by an efficient.‘ l
rats and mice following administration of the racemic compound. In addi~
_Our federal government is pushing two proposals that would ban smoking almost everywhere
_ :a‘ThO first threat is HR 3434, the sweeping new bill proposed by Congressman Henry . we”
- Secondhand smoke isn't the issue. Earlier this year, the Environmental Protection
Invade the privacy oi the home. it you pay someone to work inside your home, M
W


- Write a letter to the editor of your local newspaper. Use the points above to argue
in order to gauge our recommended product against the grow—
higher priced segments. Accordingly, Joel Silverstein will
CAPRI Menthol versions. There are trade reports that
triers of CAPRI Menthol are returning to VOGUE Menthol, and
necessary to get a full analytical evaluation. Linc Lewis
violations of the norms of science present in the literature
linking environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) to lung cancer. We
a. Moorfeed Corporation.

a. Moorfeed Corporation.
a. Production Tool & Supply Co.
Locator Bars, & Slot Punch Locator Keys.




$14,%6@.@@


$1,337.4ﬂ

S092 20935

The following is a discussion of these two concepts and the implications
a whole. Obviously, it is doubtful that any test‘division will

 

Michaelson
c

VI.

. Note number of occupants/cigarettes smoked
Note number of vent units and returns

Humidifier
Air purifier (neg. ion generators)

Schedule
mean, SD, Range)




July 29, 1986 9:00 pm DetrOit

for the vacationing Beth Conrad. In 1971, cigarette ads were
further, a total ban on tobacco advertisements from billboards and
magazines to matchbook covers. It would also prevent tobacco
, Dr. Dubin why should we ban cigarette advertising?
mum: supplhd by halo TV 30mm. Inc. Inn be and Io: III. um manna puma" only. 1' In" no! DO mama. sold or publicly anon-true or unsure.
 
smoking are likely to continue and, as time goes by, may have
L;; Though the accusation is flawed in many ways, our critics use

publications, advertising, testimony and in other public

,iﬂs ,_»_i.w , , . , we" 1,: .w . .M , l ,,
 
Program One - Gear

This information needs to be received by Doug no later than September 8,
1995, to assure shipments prior to October 1 for use during introductory week.

August 6, 1993 Williamsvllle. NY 14221
”It We also discussed 'Brand Distribution' in light of MBOs, etc. Obviously, some items
distribution and not simply — and randomly - discontinue items. A few exceptions
"It As discussed, Monarch Box offers excellent opportunities and should be a high

M805 and evaluations in general.
\I
03
5T8 L'Bﬁiﬁ’ RY Mo-{qud‘(-‘
azf'/?g:/

differences at the 95% confidence level between sidestream odors

U1
TDM, 1979, No.: 2
gggECTIVE:


STATUS: _ _ »
 

The only "concession" to the reality that 45 million adult
of employers, if any. Smoking could legally take place only in
could enter the area for work purposes.
"break," and smoke a cigarette, but not to work, Thus, a

TEXAS
SIGNS:
close to the point of purchase, which states.
The sign must be at least 8% inches wide and 14 inches long, and the lettering must be in at least
learning activities, any audio-visual materials, written materials, and course evaluation forms, In
addition, the curriculum "should" include, at a minimum, instruction in the following areas: (1)


May 20, 1982

(MDD #82—31105)
performance relative to its marketing action standards. The
80—85mm competitive smokers (excluding WINSTON Lights 85).
1988 Status Report
effective 3/1/88; 3 cents to sunset on 7/1/89. (Proposed 10 and
Increase by 2 cents (25 to 27 cents)
(Proposed l, 2.5 and 18—cent increases were
3, 5 cents

12 cents

NOTE: States marked "c" have only carryover bills which have not
 
' Assessed by Leaf Program
1. Market and grade mixing in staging areas prior to
2. with multiple in-feeding of farm bales/prize room tersa

4. with fewer grade/belt/crop/nicotine units available for
6. Fewer grade/belt/crop/nicotine units will result in
retrieval for blending.
to planning/executing required staging.
personnel.

for Phosphine Fumlgants
fumigants for protection of stored commodities and for control of burrowing pests.
in deveIOpment of risk mitigation measures proposed by EPA have been made in the
1. Establishment of g Competent Person
rewarding sections of the present Manuals which. perhaps. might place more


 
II I wmaoawumx .nwuams kuoﬁoum
humz‘wwv ummﬁ qu\mwwHH=ucH wuuHmEou \mm>oumw¢ ucwﬁwwmcﬂp I Iona mwnmﬂu mwmxomalmum mo

I IIIIMumeEoo \Hmuwcmaumwﬂuﬂw I mxmmk N new wuuwwco mwamnu
.391va uwwﬁ ou vaunocﬁ wuwHanu \Irm>oumm<IunwEwwmcmL I .uuwmco Mumm m>wmwnvmlm Hum m
van. maﬁuhmkro ammuunvounw o wumﬁaaou %ucww< uqmﬁum I Bwa mwﬁwﬁmo mwakum «Haw


smokers attempt to achieve a particular plasma nicotine

cannot ignore the fact that individuals choose to smoke and states choose to make





’J a

1. No. 7660 - Flue cured blend (Camel)

_ No. 766P-Ao 3038 ”-- 5098 1138 "1113
Lunrcr. and meet ﬁrﬂn’ts are use". ftr Ryan". ﬂair vrlue in relieving thirst; 1r. Tulrem
T‘ut His rives rise to “mun-a. ”3.0 We “a mantis of m‘rnr corsuzr-ﬁ. etc‘. "er":
CP-er‘Pcals r: su'::~t‘t=1tcs for wruc—mwc’ r-J'in mu! c: drama—mow rut: t! e rlr‘:
:Zomm‘: emitting. "Ta'fle Burnt, a chm-.3) an'.‘ uniwrsally rtc'sn‘e'! atr'ala 500’. is

.--- n
C.
tar/nicotine for all styles vs. Carlton
Creative Services
\l
\l

find ETS exposures in no-smoking sections to average 4 thousandths of a

attendants’ bodily fluids in order to estimate exposure to ETS. These
concentrations achieved are unlikely to have physiologic

Anne Duffin
issue date: 3/19/85 ahd


the California market. These are the first Carlton 100's to be examined.
of 27 each. The cigarette paper is not perforated and is a low porosity type.

a slightly high level of a sweet; coumarin-like flavor which is characteristic
RJHI FORM 2422—Rcv. 7/70
Research Degartmenl’.
pursuing the development of our own series. Preliminary results are quite

This is news Lt: me.

The Tobacco Institute

4—cent increase (8 to 12 cents) eff.


Maryland (13)
New Hampshire (17)
‘Vermont (17)
6-cent
lO-cent
Cigarette tax bills are anticipated in another 12 to 17 states.
It. 'n'neodore H. Dahoski (Lhiversity of Maryland) discussed hostility


relationship between PAF and mucin secretion in the cell culture system.



7.
When will you introduce this cigarette?
They told us so. Smokers-clearly want_a cigarette'that*:
the annoyance.associated with second-hand smoke.‘ The new

who want tobacco taste and enjoyment with significantly
Department: Fundamental R&D Previous Reports:

 
all cases, tobacco cured in the modified barns, as compared to that of
field early and are currently being harvested.
primarily contingent upon the results of the current experiments.
TO FDA REGUIATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS

Petitions


A sampling of these letters show broad. nationwide opposition to the FDA proposal
S
U1


WHY A 'CHINA BREAKER AWARD'
and less labor-intensive. They chose an alternative approach and went to work to demonstrate its potential.
1) The elimination of sample preparation for scanning electron microscopy. an effort that required about an hour per
sample;
4) Eliminated subsequent project interruptions for those other programs within the Company that depend on the
 

Another test, L-13,408 has been produced (and packed) in order to increase
trostatically perforated to approximately 50, 70, and 90, seconds (650, 470,
involved using NWA filters and Sampson #EX-267/9 emulsion adhesive with the
0 VOLUME:.
AND 01/02/90.
EXPORT.


one week prior to mobilization and for the duration of the
list will include addresses and contact names.
CIAR will make provisions for restaurant/office access,
’ be provided to IT.
results.
The proposed resolution, which would be implemented through legislation and a binding
restrictions imposed by the proposed resolution;
PRODUCED FROM B&W WriB S Tr'.

x RBM x_ Reg. Mil. IDF Mgr. : MIL

2) Presence (location, visibility and advertising)

Currently SR‘s/RR's report ill-.5199]: or QQS on Regionjesignatedbmndityles resulting in:
- Limited measures which provide little or no actionable information

top 20 brand styles in SIS here in Wnston-Salem" .see attached list.)

- SR’ s/RR' s will continue to report DOS at retail but with brand style focused on identiﬁed

Prefiling of bills took place December 4—6, 1990. A bill banning

sentiment in ND a vote for an increase in new taxes would be
business community.

3 Mega Carton DisglayKlts ’ 75 492 95 3 a an M/ _ lute/95


c. When will we have final dimensions of Riser Cards and Side Cards?

Starburst 437571 3933 SKU's Available 1 i °° i
   
the 4 SH - groups. This reaction can be followed by UV spectrometry (10).
Protein-I—SH + C1. Hg. Ph -—-——4> Protein-—S-—-Hg. Ph
The 3 or 4 - SH - groups react slowly, probably due to steric hindence (11).

._.' ,x‘y;h,:,;/; ., ‘ . y Y . w“ .1 »,E '4 . .-:__.fs‘,l.,~1,- ; ,7 . he i ‘. w hm ' 15,,

r reducing the
programs to correct anticipated imbalances (e.g., blend

meet future product needs.
- alternative sources

tation of the approved leaf buying program.

Wdistributes tobacco products to consumers including (but not


with the law and plan and begin to implement any other actions:
shall do the following:


 
gLy/lMT/VLDOC/

consisted of 10 male and 10 female rats which were 4 to 5 weeks
this study because of the historical data base available from

accordance with the Animal Welfare Act of 1970 and amendments
Primates." Room conditions included 12 hours of dark, 12 hours
NAME: Alexander H. King
meeting with success. Local vendors not supportive of
emergency clause vs filing of referendum, atty is not

explore finding an attorney and get back to us. He has

l) The establishment of a Standard Communication Test
2) To review all existing literature on print
communication principles and ad research prin-

1) Design of test technique/methodology, including basic
3) Documentation of test to establish sensitivity, reliability,

nonsmoking areas to be designated -~ Would prohibit hiring
the 5111
Arkansas HR1038 Summa 2 Directs House Speaker to appoint citizen committee to
Status: Resolution was adopted 3/13


v-
 

INTRODUCTION:

water of the animals and changed completely four times weekly. A 10% solution of
smoke particulate matter. However, a glass fiber filter medium,
studies. This filter, originally studied_by Hartman, Cogbiil and

Washington State initiative drive.
,—



controversy: Well—meaning persons have been presented

as a basis for public and private actions to prohibit
9.


5 accumulating that the nonsmoker may
have untoward effects from the pollution his
theaters,
ﬂ
SKIS 28Los
1992 KOOL KMDP WORK PLAN

dominant brand at retail.
permanent/temporary point-of-sale materials.
v“ wiH Con+mua I
12Q2 KQOL KMDP PROMQTION CALENDAR

Ban smoking.
succeed in removing every last wisp of tobacco smoke in the workplace.

National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) reports that
own independent firm, ACVA Atlantic, Inc., has inspected more than 27
million square feet of office space in 125 major private and public
systems. While NIOSH identified ETS as the problem in a tiny handful of


Manager, AnalyTical Research Period Covered: July l, I980
Re: QUARTERLY SECTION RESEARCH REPORT


conTrol program ThaT This has been necessary.
(Three Times each week).

compleTed. A ToTal of 93.5 gallons of KabaT R was used To TreaT 3,3l8,|92
\


 
which lose oncogenecity will not be due to loss of RAS. He will then look
which have been transformed with Kirsten sarcoma virus. Hybrids with
selected with oubain. Dr. Benade expects to eventually clone the suppressor


 
I V3. ”ﬁlm mu mung 55:50 419 no maﬁa—noun an? Am» wanna no .53 #65 N "Gunman Bgngov
0 ~56 nun—Nan graham “3&5an Run
9 gang: Nowmh\wmu€ mica mac—do MEN—poo among mun—Haw m: 50 man-mm anon». 95 952» 0D 030mg! any»; Bomb-Eda


2.
'J"
[J


in szlboru K5 was though! to be hzlvily skewed (ﬂint, burley while.
allyl pynuuu rum hi the PET prufilu.
‘ INTIOWCTXOII
lllylltioﬂ (D5) (SC—OS. ﬁll cdﬁmdm of both of then: lulyul


of teams were capable of victory during NASCAR's formative years. Today. almost any
In 1971. Winston established the ﬁrst point fund for competitors — $100.000.

he is known to many. tied the great Richard Patty's mark last year by claiming his
If a competition can be judged by its champions. Petty's and Eamhardt's
Through this $200.000 competition. a driver will receive $100.000 for leading the
in August.


766568 DORAL FF Bx- minim—n

     

    
Special Packing Instructions: ' 23W /

EDUCATI N
1955, Tulane University.
PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS

Interdisciplinary Studies and Department of Computing Science,
Groups, Humanization of Information Systems (73-80); Chairman,

Association for Computing Machinery (63-71); Chairman, Ad Hoc
Committee on Accreditation, Association for Computing Machinery
(66-67); Committee on Radiation Dosimetry, American Association of

Associate Editor - Canadian Journal of Statistics (73-78);
_ wiggling; l“.- lletllth, dates] ngrunry‘ZSth, 1979

Report I find myself in disagreement on several important details.
(l) __U_r;mncy

the case, as the fi urcs in ara ra h 3 and ii are 1 demonstrate;


 
 
qualitative research. ' '
Project MX is a tobacco-filtered cigarette developed to appeal to male,
products was conducted among FF smokers. This research indicated a problem

0 Blends

wave of Flight I markets starting 2/25. A total of 2 $2.50 coupons
requisitions are being routed for ap roval for each of the five
suppliers (MOI. FMI, BDS, GIII, ONLY? involved.

shown for approval to Public Affairs and Promotion management the.week


in... ».

Antonio. Denver and Phoenix began 2/5 and Corpus Christi begins on 3/8.
To date 49.474 samples have been distributed by M0! who is executing the

and two concession booths erected at the coliseum offering a free cap
#1240 — The Effects of Ahminum Silicate in vivo and in vitro - W.S. Lynn
unwashed agricultural products — grains — cottons — flax, etc..

a) What forms of aluminum silicate and what contaminants bound to it
and epithelial cells - either killing, producing sublethal inury or depressing
Briefly his study will be coordinated with others at Duke one of which is
sources. Another investigator will test the prolonged effects i§_vitro


C??y;£4 ﬁg 1(914 . (;%¢444:nnql ££<jkbdzz §;vabrwﬁ17 yé§7y£L¢6; [jg (V4521, (Jae
 

(Feo T102) and Rutile (T102). (The anatas type of Tio2 is a
Australia.
almost unanimous: there is no significant difference between
Cindy Fulp and Sarah Bess
CONTACT: Cindy Fulp (ext 4332)

identified as follows: (a) Mainstream and Sidestream particulate from XA prototype CT2286E prepared
Sidestream particulate from a market Camel Light 85.


expected this week.
__.___._-—_.._
SUMMARY:


In conjuncfion wifh anofher study, cacao bean hull sheefs were examined
 



I8". Ib I“.
‘ mumm‘commv a“.
 
to L. H. Wassong ‘ lauunﬂbi

of smokers to the new brand in the shortest time

if so, to what extent should the differences effect the

cision now? 3 ‘ ‘
06307?
E-Glutamine has been characterized as a nonessential or
FEMA (#3684) and is approved for food use by FDA.

sharp, stable bend.
the control of promoter activity; second, to identify the functional
undertaking.
tified smoke for a period of h weeks, l0 cig/day, l0 mg/cig.
observation. This will allow #807 to be decontaminated and

smoke on the Walton and then transfering to the SEleor
7.0 week exposure period. l want to suggest that we
.mw\m\v mwm megma Mmmw ow vmmuoga ow wm>ogaum m>mwmwnmz >:m mma m: wﬁmxxm_. .
.mgmxoem oxenwgmx mwme vwo gmmx ¢N-wH macaw mwusvoxa w“

 

How Consumers View The Brand

sophisticated, and stylish. While some smokers view the
istics, the MORE smoker is nonetheless seen as possessing



GZDL LLEOQ
' J: -,%‘h‘" 7 on let January 19%
  
‘_any way that this is related to ETS.

‘4. It was agreed to define sidestream particulate matter-water-

6. The following cigarettes will be used in the co—operative study:

Lexington, Ky 40546.

safety.
removed from our list. Those names conﬁrmed to be over 21 and those who are not
- They are a smoker.
- They are 21 years of age or older. and,
added involvement is another way of making the smoker sensitive to what he or she .
We have a seven year retention policy for smoker certiﬁcations. Typically, we can

EALXING reruns
Background

exposure is scant, and is insufficient to support an
in Ems exposure has not been well quantitied.”
03
(D
- When nicotine is combined with levulinic acid in water up to

- There is no evidence for a tight ion-pair between the
in Flagstaff, AZ

TIAZ 0001019

The Tobacco Institute September 1995
Card collecting, or cartophily as experts call it, has been a favorite pastime for collectors
980i 63939
 
In today’ s environment, traditional mass marketing ‘
product choices. In addition, the retail environment is
The result has been an explosion in the number of brands 7
retail chains is growing, especially at the local level.
This suggests the opportunity to adapt/tailor retail
Retail outlets will be classified on a consumer¥driven
grow-Jinn.“
activities are part of the non—respiratory functions of the lung, which in this
converting enzyme will be applied to specially fixed morsellated lung tissue i_n
vitro.
 
is quite possible that smoking may affect an enzymic deactivation process in
the lung of certain important hormones. This proposal in a way can be considered
as preparatory for such investigations at a basic level. It is, however,
‘M( f ﬁsts/45,: W‘z/reévﬂ‘
 

ﬁ‘ _ Institute, American Health Foundation, New York, New York

, - - ~ - . . I, ‘. - H ”,A A ., _.‘.MW.__._-‘~ua-.—M-mw—ﬁ+—~r ~v v4 4‘ ' 4‘
SEDRPT03 SENSORx EVALUATION TEST REQUEST NO. 1302 Page 1

outer wrap and CAMEL Lts. blend.
97-B filer (G7 process, tobacco/charcoal/CaCo3).
Products will be smoked at a rate of 10 per hour from 9:00 am until 11:30 am.
Products will be conditioned prior to testing.
Panel: PETS VISITOR TESTING OF TBC ETS FROM SMOKING MACH. (DESCRIP)
Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act (1965, P.L.
89-92). Legislation requiring warning labels on cigarette.

The Little Cigar Act of 1973 (1973, P.L. 93-109). Amends

S. 3118 (95 Cong.) -- to deter cigarette smoking. Joint
consequences of smoking. Joint referral to Commerce and



GROUPS WERE SIMILAR TO PUBLISHED OBSERVATIONS. IN THE
WHEN COMPARED WITH THE REFERENCE GROUPS 2 EPITHELIAL

LESIONS INDUCED WERE ABSENT AT THE END OF A 6-WEEK
RECOVERY PERIOD.




It is preferable for announcements of RJR donations,

Authors: J. E. Bodnar Date: February 10, 1988
‘ No. of Pages: 23



TM-G cigarettes and 1R4F reference cigarettes were collected
chromatograms showed the TM-6 sidestream to be considerably
the 1R4F sidestream. A summary of the number of peaks and
8826 SL905
JUNE 29 - JULY 3’ £§,;.{Ej IE"
§H§§EBAEE DEEELQEMEEE; ’ ~*”““*~
3. Discuss results with flow agents and plan a
quantities of Syloid with larger particle size.





that family and peers are the primary
it simply: ”The most forceful determinants of
practices of their closest friends. Teenagers with no best
support for the inﬂuences of peers and family as
 
THE PRESIDENT’S COUNCIL or ECONOMIC ADVISORS

the family.”
demonstrated to play a key role in smoking by
young people. Cigarette advertising, on the
a Gallup survey as the principle inﬂuence on the
decision to smoke. Peer pressure and family
inﬂuence were cited by almost three-quarters of
respondents as the major factors.
TI1354-0621

MEL
Prdo (Holman was 11mm.
 
. hm MT v ., Samueuc, — _ 3:

00 - DNW PLANT PM, WW EQmPMM M/II/i’o'
   
antl odles and flow cylomctry to analyze erythrocytes front r *lerozygous
GPA M’N) individuals to enumerate the frequency of varia m1 cells
smoked appear-- to show inc'eased st indc- oenl ofstyrenc
were signiﬁcantly . evated in smokers. “.9 10.2 compared to non-
  
    
calla of malt ice after i.-. injoctiona or dermal
each of 0 CD) malal per traatrnant group wal caged with 3
   
  
   
ASSESSMENT OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTM‘I’Y OF MAINSTREAM OR
respectively. Thu TA98 Salmonella strain exhibited approximately a two-fold
increase irl the number or revertants/plale alter exposure to lNF
relevant concentration or ETS (approximately 1.5 mg TPM/m’) for three
respoctivc room air controls. indicating that ETS was biologically inactive as
tested. The use of CSET permits determination of concentration x limo
-f its nucleus expands from I few cubic microns lnto s verai
ﬁrst cleavage divislon. Work - rfo
National Laboratory under the au -‘ .
under contract W-7405-ENGr48.




   
  

      
  


Anti—Carcinogenic Effect
R8D- THESE PROTOTYPES (WITH SHORT- TERM TECHNOLOGIES) MET ACTION

2) ALL PROTOTYPES HAD LOWER THERMOMETER RATINGS - “9% To 52%

\K 6*, / 5T

0525 {6905
 
WNW». m%t0
Once a suitable smoking population is established from a careful review of the

yield cigarette, e.g., Vantage (9 mg tar, 0.7 mg nicotine) for the third week.
study, then randomize and repack the cigarettes in unmarked packs (except for
ArthurDLittlelnc
 

 

0E a chemical to enhance the exchange of DNA between two

A. Principle

 
current ban on tobacco advertising in faciIities.

.............. THE 7-DAY FORECAST: 6/20/88 -- 6/28/88..............

LA H914/H1966


'*MA.H5198


House: SR- rstrnt

HCmte vote: SR wkp '

N0 DAILY BULLETIN
CthCmte hng: SR- Wkp/rStrnt/pub
 


Note: All retail accounts (except D—52) will be placed in one of the above

Overdeveloped Branded Savings Segment, i.e., Bristol, Cambridge, Pyramid
. MORE - BaH, Virginia Slims, Eve


(Direct Acct Del)
Outlet #1 (P.P. Pack #1)
(Temp D.B.)


promotional vehicle, i.e., preferred presence
(3 units)
package dump bin displays
FAX (301) 884- 3846
The countries of the Asian Pacific Him and Eastern Europe seem to be the
pleased to learn that Austria Tabak, the Austrian national tobacco monopoly has
ourselves to continue to promote our product so we can remain competitive in the
 
and attitudes. In addition, results of the study will assist 4 \
direct mail program for 1976. r)‘” .
A solo mailing of approximately 171,000 coupons wortn 25¢ off
County areas. In addition to the 25¢ coupon, recipients also
of selected racing premiums,
The study was conducted on a
EUMMARY OF FINDINCE
purchase of, or attitudes
20% over age 50.

atches, at liquidating prices with two
gh information is available to project
noted in the awareness of CAMEL Filter's
increased from 38% (pre) to 58% (post) for motorcycle racing and
U‘
U
U
Copy Strategy and Platform
best in the pursuit of tasks and endeavors which require a
Corps" between these men. Secondarily, the Brand must
fixing fluid is satisfactoryo ”
 


,_3
In addition to the work on the "specific activity“ of ETS, I believe that the
very small indeed, and it could take technical skill to generate consistently
the doses are around one eighty-thousandth of the doses used routinely in our
the control exposure level.‘
the lack of dosimetry data (the same problems exist for monitoring exposure to
complications related to the varying amounts of dilution which will be reguired
affect deposition in a major way. In whole-body exposures a very considerable
 
scheduled to have a regular session this year, has already held a special session on taxes. Lawmakers
and have recessed for the summer; New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania are expected to do the same
excise tax, imposes a new 10% tax on other tobacco products, and establishes the state legislature as
care were a 24-cent cigarette tax hike and 21% increase in the OTP tax rate.

_ BRAND-5‘ bus INE§§ u, NIT PRQDucT APPRQVAL NQTE


RISK ASSESSMENT: All of the Ultra Light styles under consideration use the same
8911‘ 877.15


Camel's share of the youth market, has admitted to the press

BEANS FOB l2§9
RD

spectrometry. Within this same general category , serve as consultant in the
42PAC§AG§NG TECHNOLOGY

BIOBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH
Computer processing of the EEG data from the smoking and stress
been entered into computer data files, proofread and corrected. Statis—


'capacity (Bmax " 100 fmoles/mg protein) of the murine neuroblastoma~as~
have commenced.'
of nicotine on the rat hypothalamus. It is hoped that this work can be




[4187 843-3361 (713) 789-1635
LOCATION Santa Barbara '

However, the American Lung Association isn't impressed by the

Material supplied by VMS may only be used for internal review. analysis or research. Any publication, rte-broadcast or public display for proﬁt is forbidden,
adversaries of tobacco. Could the desired conclusion have been
be ended by law. This is blatant intervention confected and
1.
N- ,, , , A, ,,#V “WWII,

 
Week of 2/25/85
auditions at Carnegie Hall in New York. The MORE Fashion
Judges Giorgio Sant'Angelo, Willi Smith and Michaele
ten designs from their Fall 1985 collections to leading
M. L. Gann
C. J. Gramer

D. S. Johnson

focus groups also generated discussion of consumers‘ current

brand's current positioning will be assessed.
RST/ga
PHONE:

In 1959 as a nonprofit, nonpartisan association.
access to educational opportunities for students in all states
in its meaning territorial boards of education.

m:
Professor of Biochemistry at Northwestern University School of Medicine. He

Dr. Chen feels in particular that the steroids in tobacco should be




uwmy<o ﬂux

"SMOOTH MOVES"
executed on the Eastern Seaboard, will be somewhat similar to the successful Spring




Administration and/or the Flavor Extract Manufacturers' Association.
 

data resulting from inhalation studies may indicate that an ingredient/flavoring
C
From: The Second Surgical Clinic of the University of Vienna
1931, 20.6% in 1938, and 31.76% in 1951.
11.92% in 1938, and 17.9% in 1951. The total mortality of the population of the
years; the mortality from cancer of the respiratory system has doubled.
These conclusions, however, are somewhat limited by the fact that the mortality
statistics nevertheless, does not alter the feet of the absolute increase. How-
the effects of cigarette smoking on bronchial carcinoma, since these relations
.
ON SENTRY SEALER SET (9 300 F). LAP SEALED POUCH DIMENSIONS AND DESIGN
MATERIALS: FIN SEALS (A): I) PD-5224 OPP/UHITE LDPE/FOIL/LDPE
PD-SZZS PET/UHITE LDPE/FOIL/SURLYN
LAP SEALS (B): I) PD-4BSS HEAT SEAL/FOIL/GLASSINE/LDPE/FDIL

50/30 SMOKING CONDITIONS, IS PUFFS)
INITIAL UEIGHT RECORDED
TIMING.



, , /
 


1 CSC sample for Ron Wagoner (NPT 218) was tested with TA98 and TA100

Control; (b) RP LN95 WE (total extract added back); and (c) RP LN98 WME
with TA98 and TA100. The NO" 85 sidestream samples were tested at

2 mainstream CSC samples for Jessie Rivers (AD 229)

(CPB's at four days aging: analysis by Archer R 8 D)
Determination of Carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels in smokers -
Blood was drawn at time 0, and times 7.5 and 10 min. during

smoking group.
The seventy-two participants in the Urine Mutagenicity
on Days 5 and 7 for each of 6 weeks. As the results of the\

screened for any exposure to potential mutagens. \
O . 6 £3233:5( xmmxr< 3%2: #
4oq>rm c pqo u.oo um.u4 Kw
>. nozmcxmw noapmmwozomznm p p ..+m u.+m ow

SLSL SL809

identiﬁcation card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be mistaken
reproduce any identiﬁcation card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could
or other document prescribed by statute or regulation for entry into or as evidence

E’s? (“CW

the existing Full Flavor WINSTON and CAMEL brand styles. Product
a. Tobacco Blending Division (Applied)


03
U1
12/17/98
Current / Future Plans:
high degree of reliability.
with the quality of this source of information. Some comments
diagnostic information contained in the
development of chronic airways obstruction.
. 7/1 3/7 (a

1989 EEG study was begun. Subjects were segregated into 3 groups based on

Mr. Roger Jennings prepared computer files of sensory attribute data on ETS

in research on primate gustatory and olfactory systems, renewed interest in
representation of manufacturers of fragrances and others who use fragrances

neurotransmitters from nerve terminals in vivo. The abilities of several


 
RJR option to extend for two additional 3-year terms.
(Refer to Exhibit A)

 
he a nenber so? a very select group of RJR enployaes working on e sensitive end
security all the say ‘to narket . plus get sone insight into what end aho ue

‘7. Uhat Itinlimir confidentiality does your fire assure on this survey?

La; 39: 2 L; r so ﬁh" so my“ :Lu ﬁ-p a~ on six: wag. 4“ o3351532591x.§:‘.t"-,i\':f“§-;i_"ﬂ"~.hl

 

I recommend that communities plan to conduct compliance checks on a quarterly basis,

required frequency of testing. ‘
Access Law News network to identify enforcement programs throughout the US, and to
manufacturers of a constitutional right, but it would not resolve the youth smoking issue.

audiences. We review the other advertisers who appear in those publications to ensure
Both flue-cured and burley tobaccos were taken from the
of the major bulk of flue—cured and burley-tobaccos purchased by the
markets each year. The belts and markets which were selected were

as sampling variables.
from experimental hogshcads for laboratory analyses. It was shown that
'9“ now'nh “00'3““; 2‘1 1‘.
A quantitative evaluation of total alzaloids, nicotine, total nitrogen,
ef moisture, and pH (slurry) in aging tobacco was
potassium, chloride, 10
made for six crop years (l953~1953).
 


  


BIOBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH DIVISION


dispersed tests of human smoking behavior. (4/88)
Dr. Griffith finalized the Portable Puff-Profiler and Calibrator designs in
probes, install the final software for the profilers, and to observe and
assist in the start of the project in each city. Additional trips were
additional 15 persons were trained at the field sites using the video tape
psychometric questionnaires. After being returned to Bellomy Research, the

 
m
Due to a change in priorities, work, involving the

, "remake" TSG cigarettes. Cigarettes 506 (BELN—21), 529
flow rates, and cigarettes 525 and 528 produced more


( ) Cotinin 19 0,9“
e "‘






with respect to smoking, as opposed to nicotine alone.
According to Dr. Sommers and the other members
is a behavioral genetic basis for nicotine preference (and

IN 1975, THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE DECIDED TO TRY A
LITTLE EXPERIMENT. OVER THE PREVIOUS DECADE, WE HAD BEEN
FEW HAD HAD ANY PERSONAL CONTACT WITH A TOBACCO INDUSTRY

LATER IN 1975, TWO SUCH PEOPLE WERE HIRED. THE

Director of Product Development
MPDR—T, 1968, No. 4 '




performance of the filter on the filter making machine and to obtain
the roll drum on the making machine and resulted in creasing of the

c n r Societ American Heart Association and American fun a ociation to lobb
feel more comfortable with that section.
states that existing barriers can be used to minimize the intrusion of smoke
language with'that in Section 4 regarding places not usually freouented by the

existing barriers and ventilation are not adequate to keep smoke out of the

as indicated.
N
Critique Of Busbee Application
It is also natural for Dr. Busbee to invoke the work of
Goldstein on LDL receptors.
he uses a method which he claims is new and more simple
in Japan. I have no experience with this column, since
most people use differential ultra-centrifugation or heparin-


Should the primary reason focus on poor taste delivery (e.g., not enough
the tar level is written on the pack and respondents may have looked at it
lm- tar 5.0%
4—5mg tar 3.7%
Don't know . 17.9%
from 2 to 3mg to provide greater taste delivery (while still being the
 
 

Dorothy E. Sample

loss of $18.2 billion in restaurant revenues if smoking is banned
distinct competitive disadvantage. How can you in good conscience
would create a "level playing field" in which no restaurant enjoys
necessary to force diverse businesses to use a single, identical,
4- It seems clear that most Americans want less interference
A custom designed video entertainment package will allow direct
technology and has applied their experience to the Video Van,
9999 48909
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company

mainstream particulates on a rectangular filter pad which moves at a
quantitate nicotine concentration in five equal time segments per puff.“ A
‘ individual puffs. Central to the function of IPSA is a means of measuring
\‘fé ’The absence of these types of measurements in the literature is
“ testimony to evidence for their difficulty. For example, Ceschini (3)

Even if the subsﬁtutes £1?"qu to (fen. a“, equip "31““!!qu Mi r econst derablc: . .-. ‘. ‘ ..
Wm'F’v-bﬁﬁﬁitihemmimyiust '-


Forsorne shrimp processors. process development and/or investment'in more than'one. ‘
cost of retroﬁtting equipment, as well as e anticipated public reaction, .however;'malce tt
\ 'CFC "11 iswused. to reduce the bulk density of cigarette tobacco. The shredded-tobacco is .v :1 .

e
' _ ~”_'ATT-A'C'HMEN‘[ 1 '- ' *’
90139 GBLOS
 
Over the past couple of months, many travelers have been faced
of its North American flights. While this law is being "tested"

made when the system of providing smoking and nonsmoking sections
on planes satisfied just about everyone. According to federal
records, complaints about smoking amounted to about one for every
Proponents of the change disregarded the fact that since 1971,
 
“a" 5. "Cigarette smoking aha HDL cholesterol: the Fram-
who had never smoked cigarettes had HDL comparable to those

identified. There are only inferences from epidemiologic
surveys of humans and animal studies. There has been a


REAL .
Merit July—Dec. 19777
o
 

promotion objective.
2. Review of Current Promotions -


has been released.

market segments seem to attract fewer participants with
ii. Focus group sessions
p.-



3!

 

by an active smoker in a social, experimentally controlled setting.
this study were selected from the general population living in noise— and odor-
Winneke,G., K.Plischke, A.Roscovanu, and H.—W.Schlipk6ter: Patterns and Determi—
In: Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Idoor Air Quali—
680$ “909

crop, our purchase pattern, the effects of aging, cigarette design

 

MARKET: Toledo
You must identify and schedule three distribution sites per day for

All of the Units offered hereby are being sold by the Company. Each Unit consists of one share of
Prior to this offering. there has been no market for any of the Company’s securities. It is estimated
SUSTAIN A LOSS OF THEIR TOTAL INVESTMENT. SEE “RISK FACTORS.”
     

 
The Units are offered by the several Underwriters when, as and if delivered to and accepted by the

Schneider, Bernet & Hickman, Inc.
 

 
New Entrantsand NPMs
States will have difﬁculty distinguishing NI’M product.
than monitoring for possible violations of state and federal regulations.


payments.
z>wxmamr>nm waxwoxzwzom

Mmﬁswsam onosns. 85m noavma< Mm ooaawnnmm no ﬁrm osmwwmsowso nwmw om Odmsowso dammm
 
m6w>amonm ww00w>3m

H. nosnwscm #0 :mm m acmwln5HCMH BmHWmdwso mnﬂmnm©< o: OOHm UHmSQm"

Hmﬁom <owcam Ummmm nanocos UHomQImomHm Umooﬁmam no Qmmmsa momwsmn wﬂwom


MEDIA CONTACT SHEET
— 477’ March 31, 1981
the services of a security consultant following his having received
Reynolds provide such a service to Dr. Huber? ANSWER: Yes.
and
established smoking conditions aiiows for comparison between predicted vaTues for

and Cigarette Smoking
transdermal delivery. A human PBPK mode] for nicotine and a major nicotine

Attachment II
Hence, 14 ppm is an acceptable daily intake of Dicamba whether
consumed orally or by inhalation. Even with this conservative
most cases, both groups get along well. But their relationship is often misrepresented,

o It makes good business sense.


HORIZON Brand. More importantly, it will reward you with CASH for
you to wear. In addition, we would like you to remind all smokers
smokers, "Have you tried HORIZON?" to win $50.00.
too! Because R. J. Reynolds will award your store owner or company

plenty of cash for you on the HORIZON if the Mystery Shopper spots



02/12/87
ou/O8/87

11/12/87
 
A native of Akron, Ohio, Hewett began his career as
# # #
 
 
support advertising's primary communication of product
quality.
scale and over 25, which provides them with the savings of

by 1985.
'what age do you think the VANTAGE smoker is.‘ The interviewer
18 alot older than me*

My idea of masculine
Adventurous
Enjoys life
Easy to draw smoke through filter


—

total smoke from NINSTON KS (NKS) cigarettes. A further objective
isovalerate have been performed and show that phenethyl
isovalerate applied to tobacco rods (WKS) migrates to the
the tobacco rods to mainstream smoke, 55% of which was removed by
however, the amount of phenethyl isovalerate in MSTPM was
filtration efficiency of NINSTON KS filters for phenethyl
This work is complete. Results have been reported to the
{N

animal models the ultimate species of interest is the human being. Thus,
$4fbbuﬁ’ '7 acetaminophen or ethyl alcohol.




Appropriations Committee an amendment to the 1988
arguments on this legislation, it agreed, at the request
DoT will offer strong support for the current

Jour. Royal Statistical Soc. A 141 (Pt. 4) 437—477 (1978)
there is no comprehensive theory of carcinogenesis that as yet commands

    
       
will be possible only whena"
disease has been un-
interpreted such studies as showing tha

sometimes forgotten“
While smoking and esophageal cancer have been statis-

that theories about the disease ocCurrence

CUSTOMER: ILLEEIHQLQSJLQEAEL
states would take new legislative action on proposals such as licensing tobacco retailers
and banning vending machines.
cigarette vending machines are located where persons under the age of 18 are not

adults.

"showdown" session where top public relations guns say they will
and the others feel that the First Amendment would be violated


for advertisement mostly in newspapers and magazines and only two

TIILBC 011042

. - ' HILLAND KNOWLTON
DISCUSSION TOPICS

0 Washington Outreach -~+




ingestion into the body. Would also provide that product
UPDATE: >

>



1995) (897.16laii
Bans brand-name event sponsorships: allows only corporate sponsorships (if
evidence" [897.36]
versus 1988) resulting


ﬂing”
Absorbents
B.

Substitution of Low/Denic Marumerized Tobacco
Fl
Liquid-Liquid Extraction
SSIP 86909
DISCRIMINATION E
OTHER. E]

SENSORY EVALUATION DIVISION
  
     



  

future.

acetone will have no flavorants added to the triacetin and the other half
This test would then be followed up with descriptive testing in order to
      

 
Overall sales of cigarettes in Sweden declined for only one year in

remarkably stable. Among the conclusions were the facts that some

CONFIDENTIAL:
The measurement of two basic parameters is required to
measuring these two parameters is discussed below, and
of 17.5 cc./sec. at 750F. and 1 atmosphere. The pressure
51 may be measured by smoking cigarettes under standard
are cancer, notably respiratory tract cancer, chronic respiratory

tained dose and to suggest possible new approaches. It is important
amount of tracer in the respiratory tract of.the exposed animals.
directly (though it may be debatable what fraction of tobacco smoke
(This approach, if feasible, probably will apply only to static,

1.»..— ‘

Boston. Massachusetts.
exposed group will include 1105 smokers and 55 non-smokers, a number which they
between AHH inducibility and the development of disease known to be related to
follow-up, presumably over a long period of time. on the subjects so that any


3/14/86 cc: DR. SOMMERS

production, proteolytic processing of procollagen and deposition of
formation regulated and finally how is lung collagen accumulation regulated


 

Associate Research Scientist
viruses, bacteria, and fungi (mold) become airborne, as well as toxic and
w e ' ' 7
Virus Humans V Influenza
Some colds
Cancer
does not grow in environmental reservoirs such as cooling towers or humidifiers.
Response to Comments Offered by Reviewer #2 in Connection with


the reviewer adds that the authors seemed to be more concerned with

Response.
this figure for comparative purposes is inappropriate and potentially
vl.‘


- The segmentation is based on the responses to a


o o o o o O 0

pessimistic attitude. They tend to live for today, 3
BRIGHT CONSUMER TRACKING AMONG BLACK SMOKERS

and repeat purchase levels for BRIGHT were tracked among Black menthol smokers

"addictive."

intoxicated or suffer from black-outs. The fact that behaviors like smoking or drinking coffee may be

Medizinische Wochenschrii't 118/7: 209-12, February 1976: authors'


become significantly more frequent. Obstructive ventilation disturbances
JORGENsm, 'r.o. a. GYNTELBERG, F., University of Copenhagen, Denmark
"The occurrence of peptic ulcer disease in Copenhagen males was
' i e-t ncidence of peptic ulcers was 9.2 per cent a one-
existed n - ence group, but not in the one- ear incidence
W

products of B-3/TEG

1. Develop process for washing/drying the substrate
a. Bench


CLm; lymlr’é

and inclusive of the total universe. Any shortfall in these . ‘
Region basis. Further complicating this problem iS the
selected methodologies available.
RS: Well, tell us what you got.
Michael asked that we make a transcript of this so that we can re-
:,check my stuff. Want to do that?
AJ: Alright.

Agdculmral Fungiclde


omens FOR USE:
thefungioldemixmrewhenplanuuesmallead gredusllyincreasetoSgellonspchsq.
For greenhouse and ﬂoat-bed systems. use 1/2 pound per 100 gallons (one level teaspoon per
Discontinue sprays when threat of blue mold no longer exists. Do not spray alter appearance

00
N
7‘ TIE NICDTINE'S WHAT MAKES 'Lu snake:
affects your business.
cant part of the public to detect it. Nevertheless, it's taboo within the industry to rake
Host of the 60 species of tobacco are very low in nicotine. (We'll define a species as a
companies are currently underway to make synthetic cigarettes with nlcntint‘ added.
Brown & Williamson Tobacco Company
Increase/decrease in company enrollment

Fluctuation in enrollment data can be caused by:
n

enrollees moving between states
TIM800026715
Diego, and Sacramento (the Original markets).
Revenue, non-menthol, non-ultra, and non-slime smokers who smoke primarily Marlboro and Camel.
The marketing objectives are to create awareness, generate trial and conversion, and enhance Lucky Strike

. Unaided Trademark. Advertising. Direct mail, and Promotion Awareness for Lucky Strike trademark
318036427
 
 
Iv. mm VERSUS 13mm more
This is especially true where recognition and classification of the
react so unravel-ably to smoking as to Justify medical advice on certain courses
The references appended will present opinions which are based on
The important point is that more refined and sophisticated
Ocular, Cerebral and Other
used animals for camerimentation.
focuses on indicated action.
Background
competitive brand smokers. The purpose of this trial is to support
In 1977 the Company was relying solely on couponing to promote
trial on our existing brands. we needed other promotion approaches
 
mmmmofmmﬂmfmmmwwmw
wmuw.m~gnmm¢ymmlw.wwmmdw
“mu"m-quummWMgnmquMaMw-m
works: Hmamimowoimmnm. MMqundmmad-fﬁculou m
Wmommwdmmdmdy(mamosommm

Mmmmwmm(&num's).mwm
mm.
WmmMmemmammmmm
WMIMMWWmmmmnmmdmmn ham
WMrﬂch-doq
ofﬁces to get a full accounting of exactly how much money and resources are being used

programs that are duplicative and work to zero out or reduce funding where possible.
N

risks from exposure to unleaded refueling vapors, an exposure
quick word on the Health Effects Institute. HEI, a non-profit
206(a) of the Clean Air Act, which were enacted in 1977, and
 


17823 EBLQS

ADOPTED AMENDMENTS TO MA H. 5000
following section:
nicotine after the year 2002.
offense is punishable by a ﬁne of $l00 and subsequent offenses are punishable by

a ﬁne of $250.
following section:

smoking issue continues to drive legislative issues and media
industry on this issue are increasing.
longstanding :ommitment that its products are not for young


__aaiiiﬁﬂﬂﬂnnu-u~‘

  
.n._.,._..__.
Brief descri tion of stud and note on current ro ress ‘w-~*-——'



Alert Date: November 26, 1997


. Allows tobacco advertising on mass transit and taxis


U!
0‘

recently published by the [1.5. Surgeon General and the (1.5. National Research
Much of the limited available research which has been used to promote smoking bans
proven adverse health effects.10 Nonetheless, moves to restrict or ban smoking


 

 
PeriodiCroutgoing information willhbe structured in fourﬁ~l



__A _ f

 
competitive brand styles:
- Report--3 remaining brand styles 11/21



Additional Work

Post Carbonization,

for Outside
Contract
have increased from 1931 to 1938 (21 city districts) 15.3%}. and from 1939 to
tory system as a percentage of the total mortality from cancer was 8.66% in 1931,

1,011.. These figures likewise prove that there was a much greater increase in
statistics nevertheless, does not alter. the fact of the absolute increase. How-
the streets of cigarette smoldng on bronchial carcinoma, since these relations
every age group with chemical substances and environ-

lunctions. The program controls by momentarily enabling one oi the load/unload functions when that
monitor readings. and controls tiller and lnpactor samples. A realvth'le aerosol monitor was recently
Loads required parameters trom the data tables Into memory. l

. TCHB which controls machine #1 torch #2 1
SUBROUTINE axes f

PRODUCT QUALITY EROJECT # 5-34
wonmc Pnnrvi IV ‘_

1 ££291£E/9222££221£1: Variation in 6-13 content of cigarettes due to poor
control of G‘l3 entering final blend and subsequent incomplete mixing.


 
  
W: CME IS]; 250; WL 127 294; 4- -[3- (4- ohlorophenyI)-3- -I(3. 4-d1methoxyphenyl) »I .


.-, .._: ﬂ. ..
7 FINAL SPECIFICATIONSMH‘ NOVHIQBBREC’D

Prlérity:

BLEND 92-13 OBTAIN FROM MANUFACTURING.
CARTONS. N0 PACKING. SET UP UITH 856 PAPER (SLIT
(ONGOING EXPERIMENTS). PLACE BOXES 0F CIGARETTES
IN PLASTIC BAGS - STORE IMMEDIATELY IN COLD

U!
H
'w
01


NON-MENTHOL SMOKERS, 25+. NO SIGNIFICANT DECLINE ON KEY ATTRIBUTES OR

SMOKERS, 18+.

smoking women married to nonsmoking husbands."
smoking or lung cancer rates among the substantial number of
 
ECT 3:




 
        
    
          
   
      
Work with Division Management to ensure that coupons

' , coupons should be accumulated to

small remaining shipments under 50 pounds (total weight
eference to “RR Tobacco'Company‘

Return only full rolls
9- BPE ENHANCEMEN
6 -“Copy VAP Templates" or G54-


function now has an option to print or not print shipping


reference. However, when you create a copy


almost all cases, it is a symptom, not a cause. The National Institute for Occupational
improved ventilation.
Indoor air quality legislation has three components. Simpliﬁed, they are ventilation
1981 standard of 5 cubic feet per minute (cfm) per person. The old standard set two
MAIL ORDER PROGRAM ISSUES
SHIPPINQ CO§TS - kay consulting with distribution to determine ideal shipping method and

contact comes in, the appropriate order form would be sent and orders fulfilled. '
validity of a carton order. as sample klt orders are received, these people will then be

Colorado



A. Ranking - 15

2 Permanent

visible" (only 3 paints were observed in the marketplace). While Marlboro
did have some paints at key access roads, they had no 30-sheet showing at

to 20 million or 8% of U.S. population)

Caucus
-- 15 House districts with more than 30%
Hispanic population
0 Strong consumer, legislative and editorial
supporters of companies that care.
SILL 9LLO§


9 0 - A meeting we with the following member 'of
Y. Ozden - Chairman and General Manager.
Accompanying me at this meeting were:'

August l968





an intent to abandon an aggressive posture with respect to efforts
furniture manufacturers must agree to produce their furniture in
approved barrier between the cover fabric and conventional polyurethane



and English kings. They all failed. Tobacco's

American free market economy ... whether you're selling


curtailed cigarette advertising, more adults snoke than
The Congressional Research Service, the independent research arm of Congress,
to pay for President Clinton's plan for govemment-run health care.
due to reduced drain on social security and pension payouts.
than the overall average of 50 cents a pack for all federal and state taxes.
Filter 8 Tobacco Paper Flavo 8118-5" 0(501 Gone)"


-3 at a rate of .2 one.


W do f 7/30/F7 W -""“" /5 A”.
 
W8 Hana-W
Berkeley. Cam: 94720

Unmamy cl,Cakforma
memory. The conference has been held annually since abbut 1955 in

the limited size and the increasing interest in the conference, it.
has become necessary recently to adopt the policy of restricting
the participants of the supporting firms to two, with a minimum
 

q

